 Data structure is a concept that is majorly concerned with the arrangement of and storing of data in an organised fashion. It is mostly concerned with how well data is kept and arrange and it does these by using different type of materials to perform this function.

Algorithm on the other hand can be described as a set of instructions that direct the computer on how to manipulate the said instructions. The instructions that have been stored and organized through the use of data structures are manipulated with algorithms.

Algorithms and data structures similar and work hand in hand. In fact, it is impossible to study or use one of these concepts without referring to the other.

Even though they have this great relationship and connection, they are still different terms and this difference has been explained above.

One of the major importance of data structure is that it relates mostly to computer scientists as they work more with these two concepts. For these computer scientists, all the activities they perform are based on three different tasks which are taking some input, processing this input and giving back a more relevant and useful output. To do this effectively, they are majorly concerned with the processing aspect of these three stages, and they make use of algorithm and data structures to make these possible.

Data structure refers to the way computers arrange their information on the computer, and as a computer scientist the proper arrangement of information have a very great impact on the activities of computer scientists especially when they are working on programs.

Also, for algorithms, they help the task or program developed to perform more effectively. If you write code based on perception and personal judgment without the use of an algorithm, the code will most likely be botched up after some time because you have not applied any predefined approach or methodology. Thus, algorithms help the codes and programs written remain relevant and effective even after a long period.

Algorithms and data structures should serve as swords with which any programmer goes about his coding business. The knowledge of these two concepts also give programmers an edge over their pairs as big companies fancy programmers with a proper knowledge of these concepts.

The concept of algorithms and data structures is of great importance to computer scientists and programmers since they deal with the writing of codes and the development of programs. These two concepts should be properly studied and understood since they make coding easier and more effective.


